# athene

No preprocessors. No frameworks.

This website was written from scratch using HTML5, CSS3, and vanilla JavaScript by me. No libraries (jQuery, React) or frameworks (Angular, Ember) were used, and the minimum compatibility target for the website is IE9.

The mission was simple: craft a website which builds on its predecessor by having a strong visual design without compromising on the user experience by forcing the visitor to wait for a hundred files to download.

I wrote the Perl script to generate the blog article pages, and their AMP counterparts, from a template document. A JSON feed and an RSS/XML feed are also generated by this script.

The Caddy web server is then used to serve these pages as static files, which are gzipped where it is advantageous to do so, and signals are sent to the browser to cache those files accordingly.

A Service Worker is also deployed to optimise caching in the latest Chrome/Firefox browser releases, as well as to offer an offline page with contact information.

Many clever techniques are used to minimise the initial page load without compromising on the initial impression of the site. The CSS is kept extremely lean, such that there is no significantly harmful impact to inlining all of the CSS for a number of pages. 

The lack of libraries, plugins etc. removes the need for bundling, as all of the JavaScript functions happily fit within a single IIFE in a single JavaScript file. 

Web font loading is deferred, as are non-essential stylesheets and media like apple-touch-icons and favicons (which are loaded and appended to the DOM after the `load` event has fired, and only on devices perceived to be mobile devices).

All of this results in blisteringly fast performance without compromising availability and accessibility of data, as well as excellent openness to indexing by Googlebot.
